Sometimes we need to chill when calling out political issues.

Some issues are so obvious it just really starts to sound like poking at an open wound and talking (or protesting/FB posting/ranting) it in to healing.

Only our problem is systemic and it has been here for ages. As it has been said, we are dealing with social cancers. And we all have a little bit of a tumor of that cancer.

And if the best we got is another "people power" and another impeachment to change things for the better, history has proven to us that it is an impotent remedy in the long run.

Where's my empirical proof: just look around you, and look at yourself in the mirror.

So, instead of fuelling a libertarian "pro-democracy" narrative of calling people out on things over and over and over again until we fuel, yet again, another revolution, another uprising, another social movement or activity that will at least make us feel empowered for, I don't know, the next two Presidential terms,  I suggest we consider maybes.

Probably, new ways of facing our current political weather without killing people and dying in the process. Perhaps, something that shouldn't always cause us our sanity.

Because, really, losing ourselves over political views — for the lack of a better term — is useless. "Speaking out" or "having something to say" and being "woke" about issues (just like how I might have been looking like since I started in social media) hasn't really become much of a virtue that it used to purport itself as.

Idealism causes a great deal of strife amongst those who pursue them. The world should be x, or the system should be y,  or things should be ran the z way. We already know what "should be" is. But we won't get there if we don't learn how to survive and navigate through what currently is — what the present reality is.

So here is an alternate proposition. Coming from me, who has a lot to say but am not really saying that much for most days.

Maybe people power isn't the answer. Maybe we don't have the power. Maybe the callout culture isn't the answer. Maybe the media (or the "free press"/4th estate) isn't the answer.  Maybe these altogether aren't the answer.

Something that might offend. (Ooh.) But humor me.

Maybe we aren't the answer.

I know it's kind of hard to swallow to admit that nothing we do could be part of the actual answer — that we may never get any drop of credit for progress — but just maybe 1. we don't have what it takes to give an answer, 2. the more we try to do so, the more we become part of the problem (in varying degrees).

So, now we're left with two options: 1. to keep on poking on this proverbial social wound until it spews out puss, gets infected, issuing antibiotics that never seem to really work (but is actually making the problem worse), or 2. let the wound take its natural course to give it a chance to actually heal on its own terms.

It's weird because we've always been taught na "makibaka... wag matakot". And that "an honest voice is louder than a crowd". It's all about talking, it's all about moving, it's all about "dent creation" unti we've made enough of a dent that actually pokes through the fabric of consciousness that tells us: this is not something that we can will in to being solved.

But maybe... just maybe there is something to be learned about taking a step back and letting things run its course. Just maybe.

To the energetic and passionate youthful idealism I had so embraced since I became conscious of life, to the Tim around 10-5 years ago, I would leave him this quote:

"Every Corpse on Everest was once an extremely motivated person." —

The value of having some chill: now that is an idea you never hear from Universities.
